---
layout: post
title: July 2024 Meetup
---

^Sean* delivers the News.

## News Round-up

### Headlines

#### Tulip

We looked at Tulip a little while ago, ...but it's come a long way! It's got a MIDI interface, ADCs and DACs, 7 inch touchscreen, USB keyboard input support; but most importantly an extensive MicroPython API for doing things like making music and controlling audio equipment, as well as playing games.

![Tulip running a synth application](../images/2024-07/tulip.jpg)

Check out [this video from Floyd Steinberg](https://www.matrixsynth.com/2024/07/tulip-musical-computer-based-on.html), where he goes through running a synth application on the Tulip.

#### ViperIDE

![ViperIDE](../images/2024-06/viperide.png)

We looked at ViperIDE [last
month](https://melbournemicropythonmeetup.github.io/June-2024-Meetup/) but the
improvements continue!

One of the more recent noteworthy features is that there is now an [experimental
version of ViperIDE](https://viper-ide.org/?vm=1) that simulates a device
*inside the browser* using the MicroPython WASM build. Very neat!

---

#### PyCon AU: Call for proposals

![PyCon AU 2024](../images/2024-06/pyconau2024.png)

As noted [last
month](https://melbournemicropythonmeetup.github.io/June-2024-Meetup/), PyCon
AU's [call for proposals](https://2024.pycon.org.au/program/) closed last
Sunday, the 21st. Good luck to those of you who submitted a proposal!

---

#### Programming ESP32: Learn MicroPython Coding and Electronics [book]

![Programming ESP32](../images/2024-06/progesp32book.png)

(Matt received the book, feel free to take a look! It's a really nice
introductory text.)

---

### Matt's New Hardware

Waveshare? Nope. Next month!

---

### Hardware News

#### LilyGo

[Could add the new LilyGo devices]

---

### Software News

#### ESP32-C6, ESP32-C2 and ESP32-H2 port

![ESP32-C6](../images/2024-06/esp32-c6-overview.png)

The [ESP32-C6 port](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/pull/11869) has
been added to the [v1.24
milestone](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/milestone/7).

[TrekMax](https://github.com/TrekMax) has added a PR for [ESP32-C2
support](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/pull/15440). If anyone is interested in these devices, please build and test this PR.

ESP32-H2 support has not yet been added but all three of these device require
similar changes - using the C6 and C2 as guides should make it pretty
straightforward to add the H2.

#### ESP-File Manager

https://github.com/mispacek/ESP-File_manager

#### RP2040 PIO Emulator

Nathan Young has made some great progress on an [RP2040 PIO emulator, written in Python](https://github.com/NathanY3G/rp2040-pio-emulator). Useful for things like unit tests for PIO programs, stepping through PIO execution, plotting outputs, and debugging PIO code. There's also a repo of examples, including this one below using Jupyter for plotting the square wave output by a simple PIO program.

![Jupyter notebook for PIO emulation](../images/2024-07/jupyter_pio_emulator.png)

#### Get Started with MicroPython on Raspberry Pi Pico - 2nd Edition

Raspberry Pi Press have released an updated version of their [beginners introduction to the Pi Pico and MicroPython](https://store.rpipress.cc/products/get-started-with-micropython-on-raspberry-pi-pico-2nd-edition), now targeting the Pico W. 

![Get Started with MicroPython on Raspberry Pi Pico](../images/2024-07/pi_press_book.png)

I haven't got a copy of it myself but the grabs I've seen from it look beautifully done, and it seems like it covers a wide breadth of subject material in a good level of detail. Seems ideal for beginners, or in educational settings.

---

### Projects

#### Look Mum No Pixels: a Mini Vector Display

![Vector Display](../images/2024-07/vectordisplay.jpg)

Nick Moore (founder of this meetup!) has started writing up his latest project:
Using MicroPython to control a Vector Display. [Look Mum No Pixels: a Mini Vector Display](https://nick.zoic.org/art/mini-vector-display/)

#### MicroPython Smartwatch with WASP-OS

In a similar theme to some of the links [from last month](https://melbournemicropythonmeetup.github.io/June-2024-Meetup/), we've got another MicroPython smartwatch!

Shawn Tolidano has a neat guide on [getting MicroPython running](https://www.tolidano.com/micropython-smartwatch.html) on a very cheap (as in ≈AU$30) smartwatch, the Colmi P8 (he has links through to TVC Mall to buy one). The MicroPython support comes [via WASP-OS](https://wasp-os.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#colmi-p8), which is _"...is a firmware for smart watches that are based on the nRF52 family of microcontrollers."_

![Colmi P8](../images/2024-07/COLMI_P8.png)

I haven't had a chance to try it, but I'd love to get one to play with and give it a go!

#### Exploring Microphone Magic with I²S and Micropython

Hardware company Infineon have published a fairly detailed [blog post on using one of their I²S microphone devices with MicroPython](https://www.hackster.io/Infineon_Team/exploring-microphone-magic-with-i2s-and-micropython-8e9ae9), running on a Cyprus PSoC board (although the Pi Pico / RP2040 should also be possible as well). 

![Infineon I2S](../images/2024-07/i2s.png)

#### Pixel Art with no code

Core Electronics have written up an extensive [guide on using the WLED app to drive an ESP8266 or ESP32 connected to an array of addressable LEDs](https://core-electronics.com.au/guides/wireless/glowbit-matrix-control-no-code/) (i.e. the ubiquitous WS2812B). They use their own GlowBit Matrix, but they stress it's just as easy to use any compatible addressable LEDs. 

![WLED app controlling WS2812 LEDs](../images/2024-07/Some_Pixel_Artttt.jpg)

The WLED app provides a no-code way to show complex patterns or even basic images onto a configurable number of LEDs – obviously results will vary depending on how many LEDs you have! 

---

### Quick Bytes

* **[Getting Started with HTTP GET Requests](https://randomnerdtutorials.com/raspberry-pi-pico-w-http-requests-micropython/)**: a good beginners introduction to GET requests, from Random Nerd Tutorials, using MicroPython on a Pi Pico W
* **[Don't let MicroPython's garbage collector ruin your program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mk-F-4YAsdQ)**: a deeper look at what garbage collection is and how to avoid some common issues it can cause in MicroPython, from the Making Stuff with Chris DeHut YouTube channel

---

### Final Thoughts

#### Always consider...

...that your threat model might be incomplete

![Threat Model](../images/2024-07/threatmodel.png)

---

#### MicroMac

![Micro Mac](../images/2024-06/umac_workstation2.jpg)

The MicroMac is an old-school Macintosh for under £5! Built out of one of our
faves, the Raspberry Pi Pico.

---

#### How to train simple AIs to balance a double pendulum

An *excellent* video from [Pezzza's Work](https://www.youtube.com/@PezzzasWork)
that explains how to train a neural network to balance a double pendulum.

Although an ideal ML application, before I watched the video I wouldn't have
been *entirely* sure it would be *possible* to balance a double pendulum using
this method; they're inherently very chaotic! Spoiler alert: It is, and now I
can't help but wonder if a 3x (or 10x pendulum? 1000x??) is possible...

It would be *fascinating* trying to build this with MicroPython and seeing how
the real world would affect performance.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9gQQAO4I1Ck?si=0ks7edmIY0es-A2H" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

### Midjourney fun

![MidJourney](../images/2024-06/midjourney_snake_keyboard.png)
